Story Recapped here.
Today, I'm going to explain a horror film
called "The Exorcist."
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
In Iraq, a veteran Catholic priest, Father
Merrin, joins an archeological dig where he
discovers a small ancient sculpture that leaves
him stunned.
He becomes concerned and disconnected from
the world after finding the artifact.
Strange omens follow him while he's in the
city, such as an antique clock stopping mid-stroke
in his presence and nearly getting hit by
a horse carriage.
He heads back to the archeological site, feeling
a sense of dread as he faces the statue of
a demon whose image the sculpture came from.
In Georgetown, Washington D.C., actress Chris
MacNeil writes notes on her script when a
strange noise catches her attention.
She steps out of her bedroom, following the
sound of crashes and growls around her house.
She checks on her sleeping daughter, Regan,
whose window is open, letting the cold air
in.
Chris closes the window and tucks the girl
under a blanket.
The next morning, Chris asks her housekeepers
Willi and Karl to set up traps in the attic,
believing there are rats.
Later that day, the movie set for Chris' movie,
Crash Course, buzzed with people.
Chris complains about the script to the director,
Burke Dennings, who calms her concerns.
In this film, Chris portrays a teacher who's
angered about their school being torn down.
After filming, Chris walks home, enjoying
the scenery and sounds of the neighborhood.
She passes by a church where two priests talk
about feeling lost.
Chris arrives home, learning that she's invited
to a dinner party at the White House from
her assistant, Sharon.
Regan happily greets her mother and tells
her about riding a gray horse that she borrowed
from a man by the river.
After Regan steals something from Chris, the
mother and daughter run around the house,
laughing.
Meanwhile, one of the priests, Father Damien
Karras, is bothered when a beggar asks for
a donation in the subway.
He visits his elderly mother, who is delighted
to see him.
Despite her frail condition and Damien's concern,
his mother refuses to leave her apartment
for a nursing home.
He leaves her with money on the table and
a kiss on her forehead.
At the MacNeil home, Regan presents her handmade
chicken sculpture to her mother.
Chris finds a ouija board in the basement,
which Regan claims she's played with before.
As Chris is about to touch the board, the
planchette moves away.
She thinks Regan moved it, but the girl claims
that Captain Howdy answers the questions on
the ouija board.
Regan asks Captain Howdy if he thinks Chris
is pretty, but there's no answer.
Later that evening, Chris takes away a tabloid
magazine from Regan, with a photo of them
on the cover.
Chris suggests sightseeing in Washington for
Regan's upcoming birthday.
Regan teases Chris of marrying Burke, but
she insists that they're just friends.
At a bar, Damien drinks with Father Tom, the
president of Georgetown University.
Damien is tired of the job and wants to spend
more time with his mother, hoping to be reassigned
to do so.
However, being both a priest and a psychiatrist,
Damien is considered the best fit for his
job, leading Tom to deny his request.
However, Damien questions his faith and believes
that he's unfit for his job.
On Regan's birthday, Chris is furious that
her ex-husband refuses to answer her calls
to talk to their daughter.
Regan listens to her argue with the operator
on the phone, disappointed with how her birthday
has turned out.
That evening, Chris wakes up to a phone call,
asking her to come to work.
She finds Regan in her bed, who claims that
her bed was shaking, preventing her from sleeping.
Chris leaves the room and hears the noises
from the attic again.
With the light broken, she lights a candlestick
and checks upstairs to find the source of
the noise.
Stumbling in the darkness, Chris checks every
corner until she finds a closed mousetrap
with no rodent in sight.
Suddenly, the flame in her candlelight roars
before snuffing out.
Karl appears at the attic door, assuring her
that there are no rats there.
One morning, a priest brings flowers to the
university church's altar.
He gasps, seeing the statue of Mary crudely
vandalized.
On another day, Regan goes through various
medical examinations when she sees an ominous
face in her mind.
She then becomes aggressive towards the doctors
and starts humming in a trance while waiting.
The doctor tells Chris that Regan is experiencing
a nerve disorder, which he deems normal for
her age.
He suggests that Regan is depressed over her
estranged father, making Chris worry.
The doctor notes that Regan swore during his
examination, but Chris hasn't heard Regan
use such words before.
He recommends giving Regan stimulants to battle
the depression.
Meanwhile, Damien's mother has been rushed
to the psychiatric facility by her brother.
While they wait, his uncle comments how Damien
could've been rich if he chose to be a psychiatrist
instead of a priest.
On his way to his mother's bed, the other
patients cling to Damien, seeing that he's
a priest.
When she sees him, his mother starts crying,
thinking that he forced her there.
Damien calms her by promising to take her
home, but she doesn't listen.
Given their lack of money, Damien is unable
to remove his mother from the facility.
One night at the MacNeil residence, Chris
hosts a dinner party, filling her home with
people in evening attire.
Here she learns about Father Damien, who also
acts as the psychiatric counselor for the
university.
According to his colleague, Father Joseph,
Damien's mother passed away days ago.
A fight breaks in the kitchen between Burke
and Karl after the director makes racial comments.
Chris carries the drunk Burke out of the door
as the party continues.
The guests gather around the piano when Regan
joins them, telling a man that he's going
to die before urinating on the carpet.
Chris pulls her away and bathes her, heavily
worried about her child.
After tucking her to bed, Chris heads down
but hears Regan screaming from the bedroom.
Chris rushes to her bedroom and finds the
bed shaking violently on its own.
One evening, Joseph brings Damien alcohol,
listening to his guilt over his mother's death.
While Damien sleeps, he sees visions of Merrin's
experiences in Iraq, then of his mother calling
to him.
A glimpse of a demonic face fills his vision
as he runs to his mother, who's heading down
the subway, out of his reach.
Over the next few days, Chris consults with
multiple physicians who assume that Regan
suffers from a neurological disorder that
may have led to convulsions, hallucinations,
and personality changes.
But her brain scans present no lesions, leading
them to a dead end.
The doctors rush to their house, where Regan
convulses violently in her bed, tossing and
screaming for help.
Her eyes turn white, and a monstrous growl
escapes her throat.
When one of the doctors approaches, she slaps
him across the face.
With a demonic voice, Regan screams obscenities
and hits herself.
The doctors pin her down and inject her with
a sedative.
All the while, Chris screams in agony over
her daughter's condition.
Once Regan is heavily sedated, the doctors
share their theories on her condition.
Abnormal strengths are known to happen during
a patient's pathological state, which may
have been how Regan tossed on the bed abnormally.
But Chris is hysterical, not convinced with
their claims.
The doctors insist on doing another neurological
exam to find where Regan's lesions are, but
nothing appears in the results.
Out of options, they finally decide to turn
to a psychiatrist.
When Chris returns home from the hospital,
the lights in her house flicker.
The demonic face appears behind her for a
second, but she doesn't notice.
She finds the window in Regan's bedroom open,
causing the room to be cold.
Chris covers her daughter with blankets before
leaving to find Sharon.
Downstairs, Sharon claims that Burke visited
and was supposed to look after Regan while
Sharon bought medicine.
But Burke is nowhere in the house.
The doorbell rings, and their co-worker, Chuck,
informs them that Burke is dead after accidentally
falling off the steps outside the university
behind their house.
Hearing this, Chris is distraught.
She turns and watches Regan climbing down
the stairs on all fours, blood dripping from
her mouth.
Days later, a psychiatrist puts Regan under
hypnosis.
Here, Regan admits that there's someone inside
her, and she's afraid of it.
The psychiatrist talks directly to the being
inside Regan, asking it to come forward.
A photo of Regan falls from the fireplace
as she starts growling.
When asked who it is, her face twists in anger.
She grabs the man between the legs and tackles
him down until she's pulled away.
While jogging in the university, Damien is
approached by Lieutenant Kinderman, who's
investigating Burke's death.
Unbeknownst to the public, Burke was found
with his head backward.
With this and the recent desecration of the
church, Kinderman believes witchcraft, or
someone who believes in it, is involved.
Kinderman asks if any of Damien's patients
could have done these, but he denies it.
Meanwhile, Regan is taken to a psychiatric
facility for observation, where the doctors
assume that she's suffering from delusions
that she's possessed.
Chris is adamant about keeping Regan out of
an asylum.
With no other option, the doctors recommend
exorcism to convince Regan that the spirit
inside her has been defeated.
At the university, Kinderman investigates
the steps where Burke died.
He finds a peculiar sculpture hidden under
the grass at the bottom of the steps.
Climbing up, he spots Regan's window nearby.
After taking Regan back home, Chris finds
a crucifix under Regan's pillow.
Chris asks Karl, Willis, and Sharon about
the crucifix, but they deny putting it on
Regan's pillow.
They're interrupted by Kinderman, who questions
Chris about Burke's death.
Given that Regan was sedated that night, she
couldn't have seen anything.
Kinderman remains suspicious, wondering why
Burke would leave Regan alone that night,
only to fall at the university behind their
house.
He wonders if Burke was pushed out of Regan's
window by someone who arrived that evening.
While Chris pours more coffee for him, Kinderman
finds Regan's clay sculptures on the kitchen
window.
The sculptures resemble the one he found at
the university.
After Kinderman leaves, Chris crumbles down,
wondering if Regan was involved in Burke's
death.
A crash sounds from above, followed by Regan
protesting against a demonic voice.
Chris opens Regan's bedroom door and finds
items flying everywhere.
Regan is on the bed, screaming in a demonic
voice as she stabs herself with the crucifix.
Chris tries to pry it off her hands but is
overpowered and thrown against the wall.
Sharon and the others rush to help, but the
door shuts on its own.
Chris evades the large cabinet that hurls
towards her.
The mother cries in agony, watching Regan's
head turn backward.
Driven to the edge, Chris finally meets with
Damien and asks him to do an exorcism on her
daughter.
Damien no longer believes in exorcism, having
learned psychiatry and the other reason why
people are driven insane.
The exorcism would require approval from the
church, which would be difficult.
He recommends seeing Regan as a psychiatrist
first, but Chris is tired of this approach.
Convincing him, Chris takes Damien to their
home, where he finds the sick, and disheveled
Regan strapped to the bed.
Most of the furniture was removed from her
room, and the bed is covered in foam to prevent
her from hurting herself.
The voice inside Regan claims to be the Devil,
taunting his guilt over his mother.
Damien challenges it by asking his mother's
maiden name.
Instead of answering, the demon vomits green
liquid on his face.
Later that day, Damien looks through Regan's
old drawings for clues while Chris washes
and irons his clothes.
He warns her that the exorcism may worsen
her condition, but Chris is convinced that
nothing could be worse than how Regan is now.
Damien still refuses, knowing how difficult
it will be to get the Church to approve the
exorcism.
He recommends putting Regan in a high-facility
hospital for observation instead.
Before he leaves, he confirms that Regan couldn't
have known about his mother's recent death.
He walks away thoughtfully, still refusing
to believe that the girl is possessed.
Outside, Kinderman watches him leave the residence.
That evening, Damien listens to old recordings
of Regan's voice, comparing it to the one
he heard that night.
Days after, Damien records the demon speaking
in Latin and French to send as proof of possession.
The demon writhes in pain when he uses holy
water, speaking in a strange language.
Afterward, Damien speaks to Chris in her office,
hearing that Regan's father doesn't know about
her condition yet.
He confesses using tap water instead of holy
water, yet Regan reacted to it violently.
Unsure how to convince him any further, Chris
reveals her suspicion that Regan killed Burke.
That evening, Damien plays the recording from
earlier to a colleague, who claims that she's
speaking English.
Upon playing the recording in reverse, they
listen to Regan talking in multiple voices
as if arguing.
Then, the voice calls Merrin's name before
Damien is called back to the house.
Sharon lets him in, not wanting Chris to know
what is happening to her daughter.
They look inside Regan's freezing room, where
Sharon unbuttons Regan's shirt from the stomach
and shows Damien the scar that spells "Help
me."
This convinces Damien that Regan is genuinely
possessed.
He requests exorcism to the church, insisting
that he does it himself.
Tom suggests Father Merrin, who has experience
in exorcism, perform it instead while Damien
will assist.
One night, Merrin arrives at the MacNeil household.
The demon senses his presence and roars.
Merrin refuses to hear Regan's story first
but instead instructs Damien to prepare the
exorcism.
Merrin warns Damien not to listen to anything
the demon says as it will try to distract
them with both lies and truths.
Damien suggests three personalities in Regan's
body, but Merrin insists that there's only
one.
They head up the stairs, speaking to the distraught
mother before entering Regan's room.
The demon taunts them as they douse her and
themselves with holy water.
While Merrin prays, the demon spits on his
face and mocks him.
It turns on the bed, being forced to listen
to the prayer.
The demon insults Damien's mother then starts
lifting the bed, making it shake as it growls
like a rabid animal.
Merrin demands the demon release Regan and
the bed lifts in midair, stunning Damien.
The room darkens, showing the face of the
demon for a second.
The demon tosses in bed then vomits green
liquid as the two priests put their hand over
its body, finishing the prayer.
Damien washes off the vomit from Merrin's
scarf and returns it while the demon laughs
maniacally.
Merrin coughs, struggling to keep up.
He commands the demon to leave, causing the
ceiling to crack and the furniture to shake.
Merrin draws the sign of the cross on Regan's
head, and then the demon turns her head in
a full circle.
The demon accuses Damien of being at fault
for his mother's death as the entire room
shakes.
The straps on Regan's arms break, and she
floats in midair.
Merrin sprinkles her with holy water as the
two priests command the demon under the power
of Christ.
Slowly, she floats back down.
As soon as she's on the bed, Damien takes
the straps and ties her hands and legs.
The demon knocks Damien off the bed but is
subjugated again by Merrin's prayer.
The room shakes, causing both priests to fall
to the floor.
In the darkness, they see an image of Regan
stretching out to a demonic figure.
The image disappears, allowing them to continue.
Merrin speaks to the demon, instilling the
fear of God in it.
When the demon quiets down, Damien covers
Regan with a blanket.
The two priests rest to gather their strength
back.
Damien is baffled at what he saw, frightened
and confused.
Merrin explains that the demon likely chose
Regan to make them doubt their faith.
Merrin excuses himself to the bathroom, where
he shakily takes his medicine.
Damien enters Regan's room again and sees
an image of his mother, asking him why he
left her.
He sits by Regan's side and dabs a cloth on
her sweating forehead.
In his mother's voice, the demon begs him
to release her.
He refuses to be swayed, checking the girl's
weakened heart.
The demon continues to pretend to be his mother,
causing Damien to grieve.
Seeing him weak, Merrin decides to perform
the exorcism on his own.
Downstairs, Chris finds Damien and asks if
Regan will die.
Damien promises that she won't.
Determined to save the girl's life, Damien
heads back to the bedroom while Chris answers
the door, where Kinderman waits for her.
In Regan's room, Damien finds Merrin dead
while Regan sits motionless.
He attempts to restart his heart but to no
avail.
Damien is enraged, hearing the demon giggle
at Merrin's expense.
He tackles the demon down and commands it
to take him instead.
The demon pulls off the medallion from Damien's
neck.
With the medallion off, Regan's demonic roars
turn to the girl's cries.
Damien's eyes turn green, signifying his possession.
The demon reaches down to Regan, but Damien
fights for control, sending himself out the
window and falling into the steps where Burke
died.
Chris and Kinderman storm into the bedroom,
finding the terrified girl crying.
Kinderman checks outside the window, seeing
students gather around Damien's body.
Chris, still in disbelief over the events,
realizes that her daughter is back and desperately
hugs her.
Outside, Joseph finds Damien struggling for
life.
Mourning for his friend, Joseph says his last
rites as Damien passes away.
A few days later, Chris packs up the house
to leave the city.
After everything they went through, Sharon
decides to stay behind and quit being Chris's
assistant.
She gives Chris the medallion that she found
in Regan's old room.
Outside, Joseph approaches Chris, who tells
her that Regan doesn't remember anything from
her possession.
Regan comes out of the house, bearing bruises
on her face but otherwise back to her normal
self.
Joseph's clerical collar triggers a distant
memory in Regan, leading her to kiss the priest
on the cheek before leaving.
The car drives away with the family, but Chris
stops the car to hand Damien's medallion to
Joseph.
Instead, he insists that they keep it.
Seeing the family drive off, Joseph passes
by the steps where Damien fell before walking
back to find Kinderman at the gate.
Kinderman asks about Regan, glad to hear that
she's doing well.
The two men walk together, leaving the old
MacNeil house behind.